
## DAY ONE: Setup and familiarize yourself with the data

### Technical Set up
Follow the list of instructions [here](../../resources/tech_setup/technical_setup.md) to make sure you are all set on accounts. 

### Working with Sensitive Data
We are working with sensitive data. It is important to be careful, and follow the procedures listed [here](../../resources/high_risk_data.md). 

### Familiarize yourself with the platelet data

For the first couple weeks, we will be all delving deep into the platelet dataset!

Mike provided an intro the platelet data. You'll be hearing a lot more about these data soon, but let's get going and take a look at the data!

1. Connect to Nero and open up RStudio in your web browser (Refer back to the [technical setup](../../resources/tech_setup/technical_setup.md) if you have problems.)

2. Create a new project and open up a new R markdown notebook.

3. All the platelet data are located in the `/share/pi/dssg/platelet/input_data/v0`. (For more info about the general Nero directory structure, read [this](../../resources/reference/nero_info.md)). 
Within the platelet data, there are four sub-directories, each have multiple files: 
   -   *Best practices note: you should not edit the input data (you should only read in input data and if you need to write it out, do so in a new file)*
   -  Stay in your home directory, and use the path to this file
   
4. Then, read in the following file with R:
 `seed_data_hashed/LAB-BB-CSRP-Census_Daily-day-4:08-00-34.csv`
 (We recommend using the full path for this)
  + A lot of the fields are de-identified using a hash.
  + A couple important fields to consider:
      * `PAT_ID`, `PAT_MRN_ID` - these are the patient IDs
      * `LOCATION_DAY` - the day, we have indexed the data relavtive to a particular date (some days are negative)
      * More information is provided in the keys sent via slack (e.g. a key for `LOCATION_NAME`)

  These will be present and consistent across all files!

We will now divide up into groups to get familiar with the data.

#### Group Activity: Understand the Platelet Data in a Directory
Each of the groups have been assigned a directory to explore. Within your group, start looking at the data.

The directories to look at are:
  * `census_data_hased/`
  * `cbc_data_hashed/`
  * `transfused_data_hashed/`
  * `inventory_data_hashed/`

1. What is in your directory? What is the file naming convention?
2. What are the data fields? 
  * Which fields are hashed? 
  * Which fields vary?
  * Which fields appear useful?
3. Once you have gotten familiar with the tables in your directory, think about what information is contained in them. What would be useful to summarize? Plot?
4. Within your group, generate this summary and report.

Your group will then be asked to present this to the other groups. 
