

## 7/22/2019

### Program Norms
We discussed program norms; the results of this discussion are [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HP1NXb5GQ01RU16QnEu72Q1PcNe8NA2Cwcst4_Dehrk/edit).

### Intro to Groups 
We divided into two groups for the rest of the summer.

For the platelet project:
 - group A is focusing on predicting wastage
 - group B is focusing on predicting whether patients need a transfusion

The deliverables for the week are described [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15ioVcHMbbZ_QYaSCyV52srH6M5xQfooTnao6hTctgfw/edit).

### Exploratory Data Analysis

#### Coming up with questions
Mike lead a session to come up with qs for exploring the platelet data. 

Questions we came up with are [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tYT1M6zcNxyzjfQLplrZmXzV0iXPiCw0BKxGggEPO7M/edit). Everyone has to take a question and answer it with the data.

As we come up with qs that we need to ask for help on (from Naras or Tho), put them [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cCIEgWqr4PveubLF9QSw1E1AwfpJ31T0G7zpaLRLy4M/edit). This is a central location to store the data questions.

You should be working in an .Rmd file in your `course_materials` repository. Don't forget to push this to GitLab during the day.

#### Model features and outcome variable

Since the goal of the week is to build an initial model for our team's outcome of interest, we want to focus on this. List the feature variables and the outcome of your analysis. 

#### Exploring features

We've been asking a lot of important questions of the dataset. Brainstorm some more!
Now follow the instructions [here](../../resources/eda_intro.md) to systematically go through your variables.


### Workflow / Tech session
Emily is leading a session on [reproducible workflows and data management](../../resources/reproducible_workflow.md).



### Stats session - p-values
Mike is leading a session on p-values.
